# Upgrade to `envd` v1

In the new envd v1 release, the syntax for defining environments has been improved. The key benefits of the v1 syntax include:

- Enhanced support for custom base images - v1 environments can utilize any base image and inherit configurations such as environment variables, working directory, and entrypoint.

- Production ready - v1 syntax can disable the development tools for production use, enabling parity between local development and deployed environments.

- A faster build with the Moby builder: `envd` v1 can utilize BuildKitd in Moby to decrease image conversion time.

These improvements make envd v1 a powerful tool for streamlining development workflow and enabling portable, production-grade environments. This guide will cover the changes in v1 syntax, how to upgrade from v0, and best practices for using envd in production environments.

## Syntax changes

::: tip

Start from `envd v1.0`, `envd` will use v1 syntax by default, no need to declare the version in the `build.envd` file.

:::

To use the v1 for `envd<v1.0`, all you need is to declare the version in the first line of the `build.envd` file.

```python
# syntax=v1

def build():
    base(image="ubuntu:22.04", dev=True)
    install.conda()
    install.python()
```

You can use any base images. The `dev` flag will enable the development tools, such as `git`, `vim`, `starship`, etc. If you want to use the environment in production, you can set `dev=False` to disable the development tools.

Conda and Python are no longer installed by default. You can use `install.conda()` & `install.python()` to install them if necessary. Or you can choose to use a Python official base image like `base(image="python:3.11")`.

For CUDA toolkit, the following codes have the same effect.

```python
# use `install`
install.cuda(version="11.2.2", cudnn="8")
# replace the base image
base(image="nvidia/cuda:11.2.2-cudnn8-devel-ubuntu20.04")
```

## Upgrade from v0

The main difference is how to declare the base image with language support. Here is a comparison between v0 and v1 syntax.

- v0
```python
def build():
    base(language="python3")
    install.python_packages(name = [
        "numpy",
    ])
    shell("zsh")
```

- v1
```python
# syntax=v1

def build():
    base(dev=True)
    install.conda()
    install.python()
    install.python_packages(name = [
        "numpy",
    ])
    shell("zsh")
```

## Best practices

### Moby builder

::: tip

Start from `envd v1.0`, `moby` builder is enabled by default. Check with cmd `envd context ls`.

:::

To enable the `moby` builder, you can create a new context like:

```bash
envd context create --name moby --builder moby-worker --use
```

### Consistent dependencies

To bridge the gap between development and production, you can define the environment as following:

```python
# syntax=v1

def dependencies():
    install.conda()
    install.python()
    install.cuda(version="11.2.2", cudnn="8")
    install.python_packages(name = [
        "torch",
        "transformers",
    ])

def build():
    base(dev=True)
    dependencies()
    shell("zsh")

def prod():
    base(dev=False)
    dependencies()
```

Then you can use `envd up -f :build` to work in the development environment and `envd build -f :prod --output type=image,name=registry/username/project,push=true` to build and push the production images.

## Additional resources

- [v1 reference](../api/starlark/v1/global)
- [disable merge operator when using the moby builder](https://github.com/tensorchord/envd/issues/1693)
